# Parameterized Domain Decomposition for a Physics-Informed Neural Network Across Shock in a Convergent-Divergent Nozzle

Design and optimization of high-speed internal compressible flows are crucial parts of propulsion systems. Traditional numerical solvers for governing equations of flows through nozzles incur substantial computational costs during iterative execution. Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are a promising alternative to such solvers, as they can offer rapid predictions of flow properties. However, PINNs face a critical issue when applied to problems of solving partial differential equations with discontinuous solutions - a given example being the predictions for properties across the shock in a convergent-divergent nozzle. The discontinuity leads to inaccuracies that cannot be adaptively resolved by a given single neural network. Various methods have been used to handle this issue, the most prominent and recent ones being the use of adaptable domain decomposition with the use of sub-Neural Networks for each sub-domain.

This work proposes the utilization of a domain decomposition approach, with the interface itself being a parameterized variable, trained alongside sub-Neural Networks trained for each sub-domain. Further techniques like causal weighting and residual-adaptive refinement were used. This method is applied for predicting the properties across the shock in a high-speed compressible flow in a convergent-divergent nozzle. With the incorporation of Rankine–Hugoniot boundary conditions to ensure consistent predictions of the interface alongside the other flow governing equations and boundary conditions, the final results were benchmarked against the reference solutions obtained from approximating the properties at a location from numerical analysis of the governing equations, as well as empirical relations from literature.

This yielded a significantly improved solution against a singular Neural Network, with a loss reduction from 10^-3 to 10^-5 in magnitude, as well as an accurate discontinuity prediction across a shock layer, for a similar number of training epochs.
